DEVDOCS-3406: Revise OAuth and API account articles (#1405)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/getting-started/rest-api-authentication.md

# Guide to API Accounts

BigCommerce offers two types of OAuth-based API accounts to developers who wish to use BigCommerce's REST APIs: store management credentials and app credentials. This article describes the difference between the two, how to obtain and revoke account credentials, and the use cases for each. It also contains a reference for available OAuth scopes and provides a compelling list of reasons to migrate from legacy API tokens to OAuth credentials.

In addition to authenticating REST APIs, BigCommerce API accounts are the fundamental authentication layer for all authenticated API requests. To learn more about different authentication schemes, see [Authenticating BigCommerce APIs](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication/authenticating-bigcommerce-apis).

## API accounts

> Every parent set of API credentials that you request for your store is its own **API account**. At its simplest, an API account consists of the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every parent set of API credentials that you request for your store has its own **API account**. At its simplest, an API account consists of the following: 
```

* the `client_id` uniquely identifies the app or user, or the _client_, making a request;

> * the `client_secret`, which is a cryptographically secure value known only to the client and BigCommerce.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the `client_secret`, is a cryptographically secure value known only to the client and BigCommerce.
```

Every active API account has at least one `access_token`. [Store API accounts](#store-api-accounts) include a static `access_token` that does not change. [App API accounts](#app-api-accounts) expect each application to generate a unique `access_token` for every store that installs the app.

**Guard these values closely.** The `client_id` and `client_secret` will never change; `access_token`s do not expire based on time and cannot be manually invalidated. It's best practice to limit each account's [OAuth scope](#oauth-scopes) to only the privileges needed to complete that app or user's designated tasks. Create separate API accounts for each app, store API user, and/or function.

<!-- theme: info -->
> Although the **client ID** value uniquely identifies the app or user making a request, you don't need to pass it in the header of each API request.

## Store API accounts

> Merchants generate single-store API credentials when they create API accounts in their store control panel (**Advanced Settings** > **API Accounts**). Use these credentials to read and change one store's data with BigCommerce's APIs. Store API accounts' access tokens and OAuth scopes can't be changed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merchants generate single-store API credentials when they create API accounts in their store control panel (**Advanced Settings** > **API Accounts**). Use these credentials to read and change one store's data with BigCommerce's APIs. You can't change store API accounts' access tokens and OAuth scopes. 
```

In addition to the [API account components](#api-accounts) in the preceding section, store API accounts contain the following attributes out of the box:
* an `access_token`, which accompanies most REST API requests;
* the **client name** is a label for your convenience, and it doesn't accompany requests;

> * the **API path** is the URL to which you make requests. The API path won't change, but it will have `/v3/` or `/v2/` appended to it, depending on which version is current for the endpoint you're querying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the **API path** is the URL to which you make requests. The API path won't change, but it will have `/v3/` or `/v2/` appended to it, depending on the current version for the endpoint you're querying.
```

7. Back on the Developer Portal landing page, find your app listed under the **Create an app** button. To view your client ID and client secret, click **View Client ID** next to the relevant app. You can access your API account credentials until you delete the app.

![View Client ID](https://s3.amazonaws.com/user-content.stoplight.io/6012/1537390078741 "View Client ID")

![Client ID and client secret](https://s3.amazonaws.com/user-content.stoplight.io/6012/1537390135692 "Client ID and client secret")

### App access tokens

App API accounts do not come pre-configured with an access token. Each time a store installs your app, BigCommerce initiates a grant code authorization flow to help your app generate a dedicated access token for that store. For further details, see [Authenticating an app](/api-docs/apps/guide/auth).

### Revoking app API credentials

There is no way to manually revoke or force-regenerate app API account access tokens. However, either of the following actions triggers a token refresh:
* When the store owner's email address changes
* When you modify the app API account's OAuth scopes

> After one of these changes, the store owner will be prompted to review the change and reauthorize the app the next time they click the app icon in the store control panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of these changes will prompt the store owner to review the change and reauthorize the app the next time they click the app icon in the store control panel.
```

<!-- theme: danger -->
> #### Delete apps carefully
> When you delete an app in the Dev Portal, there is no way to recover the client ID or client secret. If you choose to do this, don't forget to mitigate potential loss of [webhook and metafield](#dont-forget-your-webhooks-and-metafields)-related data and functionality.

## Choosing the right kind of API account

> Where both types of API account are supported, review the preceding sections to make an informed choice about which best fits your use case. In the following table, links go to the relevant section of our [Authentication](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the preceding sections where both types of API accounts are supported to make an informed choice about which best fits your use case. In the following table, links go to the relevant section of our [Authentication](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication) article.
```

| [REST Storefront API](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication#same-origin-cors-authentication) |  | &times; |
| [GraphQL Storefront API](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication#bigcommerce-generated-jwts) |  | &times; |
| [Customer Login API](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication#user-generated-jwts) | &times; |  |
| [Current Customer API](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication#client-id) | &times; |  |
| [Payments API](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication#bigcommerce-generated-jwts) | &times; | &times; |
| [Apps that host REST Provider APIs (provider apps)](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication#developer-configured-authentication) | &times; |  |
| Apps hosted in the store control panel (single-click app) | &times; |  |
| Manual connection between a third-party app and a store |  | &times; |
| Single-store front-end scripts |  | &times; |

## Migrating from legacy to OAuth

<!-- theme: warning -->
> #### Legacy API Accounts
> BigCommerce no longer issues legacy API Accounts to new stores. Existing legacy API Accounts will continue to work until further notice. **Migrate to OAuth as soon as possible.**

### Benefits of migrating to OAuth

> We recommend migrating from legacy API credentials to OAuth, if you haven't already. Migration provides a wealth of benefits, including the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend migrating from legacy API credentials to OAuth if you haven't already. Migration provides a wealth of benefits, including the following:
```

* If you use one of our [client libraries](/tools-resources), consult the library’s documentation for establishing an optimal OAuth configuration.
* After you create your connection, update your connection parameters as follows:
  * Use `https://api.bigcommerce.com` as the gateway URL instead of the BigCommerce store’s secure hostname. For example, route requests that formerly went to `https://store-abc123.mybigcommerce.com/api/v2/orders/123` or `https://my-custom-store-domain.com/api/v2/orders/123` to `https://api.bigcommerce.com/stores/{{store_hash}}/v2/orders/123`.
  * Rewrite your HTTP request headers to use the `X-Auth-Token` header to pass the API account's `access_token` instead of the `Authorization` header. For more information, see [Authentication](/api-docs/getting-started/authentication).

Rate limiting works differently for OAuth API connections. For details, see the [Rate Limits section](/api-docs/getting-started/best-practices#api-rate-limits) of our API best practices article.

## OAuth scopes

> **Scope** grants and limits a program's ability to read and write data. Set the scopes to the minimum level of access your implementation needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Scope** grants and limits a program's ability to read and write data. Set the scopes to the minimum level of access to meet your implementation needs.
```

> All OAuth scopes except `default` provide `read-only` permissions scopes, so that you can limit some accounts to sending `GET` and `HEAD` requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All OAuth scopes except `default` provide `read-only` permissions scopes so that you can limit some accounts to sending `GET` and `HEAD` requests.
```

| Marketing | read-only | `store_v2_marketing_read_only` | View marketing information | [/v2/coupons](/api-reference/marketing/marketing-api) <br>[/v2/gift_certificates](/api-reference/marketing/marketing-api) <br>[/v2/banners](/api-reference/marketing/marketing-api) |
| Orders | modify | `store_v2_orders` | View and modify orders | [/v2/orders](/api-reference/orders/orders-api) <br>[/v2/order_statuses](/api-reference/orders/orders-api) |
| Orders | read-only | `store_v2_orders_read_only` | View orders | [/v2/orders](/api-reference/orders/orders-api) <br>[/v2/order_statuses](/api-reference/orders/orders-api) |
| Order Transactions | modify | `store_v2_transactions` | View and modify order transactions | [/v3/orders/{id}/transactions](/api-reference/orders/orders-transactions-api) |
| Order Transactions | read-only | `store_v2_transactions_read_only` | View order transactions | [/v3/orders/{id}/transactions](/api-reference/orders/orders-transactions-api) |

> | Create Payments | modify | `store_payments_access_token_create` | Process Payments | [/payments/access_tokens](/api-reference/payments/payments-create-payment-token-api)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Create Payments | modify | `store_payments_access_token_create` | Process payments | [/payments/access_tokens](/api-reference/payments/payments-create-payment-token-api)|
```

> | Get Payment Methods | read-only | `store_payments_methods_read` | Get Order Payment Methods | [/payments](/api-reference/payments/payments-process-payments) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Get Payment Methods | read-only | `store_payments_methods_read` | Get order payment methods | [/payments](/api-reference/payments/payments-process-payments) |
```

| Products | modify | `store_v2_products` | View and modify products, brands, categories, and other product information. | [/v3/catalog](/api-reference/catalog/catalog-api) <br>[/v3/pricelists](/api-reference/price-lists/pricelists-api) |
| Products | read-only | `store_v2_products_read_only` | View products | [/v3/catalog](/api-reference/catalog/catalog-api) <br>[/v3/pricelists](/api-reference/price-lists/pricelists-api) |
| Themes | modify | `store_themes_manage` | View and modify themes | [/v3/themes](/api-reference/themes/themes-api) |
| Themes | read-only | `store_themes_read_only` | View themes | [/v3/themes](/api-reference/themes/themes-api) |

> | Carts | modify | `store_cart` | View and Modify carts | [/v3/carts](/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-cart-api) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Carts | modify | `store_cart` | View and modify carts | [/v3/carts](/api-reference/cart-checkout/storefront-cart-api) |
```
